In this lecture, we look at how to handle dropdown menus.
So what our dropdown menus, dropdown menus can be found across the web, a most commonly used in input
forms.
They allow the user to select a value from the provided options.
The select element is used to create a dropdown list and the options take inside the select element.
Define the available options in the dropdown list.
So if we look at the image on the right hand side, the select element is used as a surrounding opening
and closing takes.
The actual drop down value options are then listed using the option tags.
The Select Clause.
So to be able to select an option from a dropdown menu, we need to use the select class.
The select class is a web driver class which basically provides the implementation of the HTML select
take.
A select type provides to help methods with select and select options.
Don't worry.
If these slides appear confused, the demo will make it clearer.
So how to use a select class?
First we need to import a select package in our test in order to use it.
So this is the import that we would place in our code.
Then we must declare the drop down element as an instance of the select class and the example below.
We name this instance as call selection.
So cost selection is an instance of the select clause and within the brackets I provide a driver find
element by name cause.
Now we can select an option to cite BMW by using something like the below code.
So now I'm using the object call selection and I have access to methods.
So in this case, I'm using the select by visible text method and providing a value of BMW.
So let's try this out.
So before we write any code, let me first walk you through the text.
So I'm going to open up Chrome and go to automation testing the code at UK and I'm going to click on
the dropdown link which will take you to this page.
So we're going to write tests using this dropdown menu and if I select it, you'll see that there's
a number of options for different car makers.
And if I select one of these options, that value is then shown in the dropdown menu.
So the first thing to do is right click and inspect.
And then I'm going to get selected too, and then focus on that dropdown menu.
And if we look at the HTML, you'll see that it's highlighted a select line.
And if I expand that select line, you'll see that I'm given a number of options for different comics.
So here we have a value and we also have the text that appears on the Web page itself.
So what we need to use is the select class in order to interact with this.
So I'm going to minimize this for now and then open up a clips.
And then from using the class in the last lecture on that to highlight it and then copy and paste it
and I'm going to give it a new name.
So l06 lecture six and I'm going to call it a drop down menu and then click okay.
So if I double click that new class.
So I no longer need these lines from the last lecture, and I need to update the address to the drop
down page.
So I'm going to open up the browser and copy the address.
And I'm going to replace this here like so.
So the first thing I need to need to do is to use a select class.
So make sure to use a capital s like so s e l e c t and I need to give the object an object name.
So I am going to call this menu item and I'm going to write equals new select and in brackets and a
semicolon.
So you can see that select is currently highlighted we've been error so if I if I hover over select
you'll see I'm given an option to import so make sure to import the one from selenium support UI.
So if I click that Evernote now goes away.
But it's still an error under this one and if I hover over it.
You'll see that I need to provide a value.
So within the brackets I'm going to write Driver Dot's find elements.
But.
Thoughts.
I'm going to use a set selector, and for now I'm just going to want to double quotes.
So what I need to do now is go back to the web page and I need to provide a selector for the dropdown
menu itself.
So if I look at the rhetoric philosophy panel.
So I am going to get the selector tool and then click on the dropdown.
And these value, these selectors are already shown.
So the one I'm going to use is the simple one here.
So I have scores, which stands for I the cause, because the selector has an idea of cause.
So if I copy that.
And then go back to Eclipse.
I'm going to simply paste it there like so.
So the next thing I'm going to do is use that menu item object.
So I'm going to write menu item.
And then if I write dots.
You can see that I'm given access to a number of methods.
And the method I'm going to demonstrate is this one here.
So select visible text.
So for a double, click it.
You'll then see that there's brackets.
And in those brackets I need to provide a string.
So string is provided by double quotes.
So going by the method name select by a visible text.
What do you think that means?
So what it means is the text that we see on the Web page.
So in this example, I'm going to try and select Honda notes his Honda has a capital H.
So in my code, I'm simply going to write Honda as it appears on the web page.
And now I'm going to say this class and then I'm going to try running it.
Let's see what happens.
So you can see from the dropdown menu Hondo was selected.
So that's worked as expected.
Now, if I go back to clips and if I comment that line out.
Let me try another example.
So I'm going to write menu item thoughts, but this time I'm going to use.
Select by value so far click the.
And inside the brackets, I need to put double quotes.
So I need to provide a value here.
So what do you think I should write to select Jeep?
So you may think that I need to use the capital G, but because we selected by value, we need to look
at the HTML and here we can see that the option value equals G with a lowercase w.
So I need to use that value there with lowercase g.
So I'm going to write g like so.
So again, I'm going to say this class and see if that works.
So I'm going to run it.
And let's see.
So you can see it has been selected.
Now just for some reassurance.
Let's see what happens if I did change that to a capital J.
Let's see if it works.
So again, I'm going to save.
And I'm going to run this class.
And you'll see that Jeep wasn't selected.
So an important thing to remember is if you're using select by value is to make sure you use the value
as it appears in the HTML.
So that's it.
It's fairly simple.
Once you got the hang of it.
But remember, if you're using interactive dropdown menus, always make sure to use the select class.
Thanks for watching.